---
layout: default
title: Static analysis of biological regulatory networks dynamics using abstract interpretation
authors: L. Paulevé, M. Magnin, O. Roux
published: in Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, 2012
category: papers
category_title: Related Papers
---

*By L. Paulevé, M. Magnin, O. Roux*

The analysis of dynamics of Biological Regulatory Networks (BRNs) requires innovative
methods to cope with the state space explosion. This paper settles an original approach
for deciding reachability properties based on the Process Hitting, a framework suitable to
model dynamical complex systems. In particular, the Process Hitting has been shown of
interest to provide compact models of dynamics of BRNs with discrete values. The
Process Hitting splits a finite number of processes into so-called sorts and describes the
way each process is able to act upon (i.e. to ”hit”) an other one (or itself) in order to
”bounce” it as another process of the same sort further acting.

By using complementary abstract interpretations of the succession of actions in Process
Hitting, we build a very efficient static analysis to over- and under-approximate
reachability properties, which avoids building the underlying states graph. The analysis
is proven to have a low theoretical complexity, in particular when the number of
processes per sorts is limited while a very large number of sorts can be managed.

This makes such an approach very promising for the scalable analysis of abstract
complex systems. We illustrate this through the analysis of a large BRN of 94
components. Our method replies quasi-instantaneously to reachability questions while
standard model-checking techniques regularly fail because of the combinatoric explosion
of behaviours.

*Article published in the journal [Mathematical Structures in Computer
Science](http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayJournal?jid=MSC).*

*[Full text](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0960129511000739).*


