---
layout: default
title: Under-approximation of Reachability in Multivalued Asynchronous Networks
authors: M. Folschette, L.  Paulevé, M. Magnin, O. Roux
published: at CS2Bio 2013
category: papers
category_title: Related Papers
---

*By  M. Folschette, L.  Paulevé, M. Magnin, O. Roux*

The Process Hitting is a recently introduced framework designed for the modelling of concurrent
systems.
Its originality lies in a compact representation of both components of the model and its
corresponding actions: each action can modify the status of a component, and is conditioned by the
status of at most one other component. This allowed to define very efficient static analysis based
on local causality to compute reachability properties.
However, in the case of cooperations between components (for example, when two components are
supposed to interact with a third one only when they are in a given configuration), the approach
leads to an over-approximated interleaving between actions, because of the pure asynchronous
semantics of the model.

To address this issue, we propose an extended definition of the framework, including priority
classes for actions. In this paper, we focus on a restriction of the Process Hitting with two
classes of priorities and a specific behaviour of the components, that is sufficient to tackle the
aforementioned problem of cooperations.
We show that this class of Process Hitting models allows to represent any Asynchronous Discrete
Networks, either Boolean or multivalued.
Then we develop a new refinement for the under-approximation of the static analysis to give accurate
results for this class of Process Hitting models.
Our method thus allows to efficiently under-approximate reachability properties in Asynchronous
Discrete Networks; it is in particular conclusive on reachability properties in a 94 components
Boolean network, which is unprecedented.

*Article presented at [CS2Bio'13](http://cs2bio13.di.unito.it/)*

*Full text available as [preprint version](http://www.irccyn.ec-nantes.fr/~folschet/Folschette_CS2Bio13.pdf)*

