---
layout: default
title: Identification of biological regulatory networks from Process Hitting models
authors: M. Folschette, L. Paulevé, K. Inoue, M. Magnin, and O. Roux
published: in Journal of Theoretical Computer Science, 2015
category: papers
category_title: Related Papers
---

*By M. Folschette, L. Paulevé, K. Inoue, M. Magnin, and O. Roux*

Qualitative formalisms offer a well-established alternative to the more
traditionally used differential equation models of Biological Regulatory
Networks (BRNs). These formalisms led to numerous theoretical works and
practical tools to understand emerging behaviors. The analysis of the dynamics
of very large models is however a rather hard problem, which led us to
previously introduce the Process Hitting framework (PH), which is a particular
class of nondeterministic asynchronous automata network (or safe Petri nets).
Its major advantage lies in the efficiency of several static analyses recently
designed to assess dynamical properties, making it possible to tackle very large
models.

In this paper, we address the formal identification of qualitative models of
BRNs from PH models. First, the inference of the Interaction Graph from a PH
model summarizes the signed influences between the components that are effective
for the dynamics. Second, we provide the inference of all René Thomas models of
BRNs that are compatible with a given PH. As the PH allows the specification of
nondeterministic interactions between components, our inference emphasizes the
ability of PH to deal with large BRNs with incomplete knowledge on interactions,
where Thomas' approach fails because of the combinatorics of parameters.

The inference of corresponding Thomas models is implemented using Answer Set
Programming, which allows in particular an efficient enumeration of (possibly
numerous) compatible parameterizations.


This paper as been published in the journal Theoretical Computer Science in
2015.
Please refer to the [edited version](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2014.12.002)


